hello Jerry excited friends I'm dr.
Becky welcome back to my channel now I
usually talk about things that we
understand in science on this channel
the things that we know about today I
want to talk about things that we don't
know and so Ennis that's kind of the
most interesting bit about science and
the things that we don't know and there
are things that we don't know that we
don't know but there are also things
that we know that we don't know
so unsolved mysteries so to keep this
series off we're going to talk about
fast radio bursts so fast radio bursts
are these little pulses of radio waves
that we detect on earth that lasts for
like milliseconds that we know are
coming from space but we have no idea
what's making them and where they're
going from the first one was detected
back in 2007 but it actually was found
in archived data that was actually taken
in 2001 so took six years for someone to
actually find that this thing had
happened and since then we've been able
to find more in archived data and then
also detect when they go off because
that transient we have no idea where
they're gonna go off in the sky or when
and we now have about 30 individual
detection zuv a fast radio bursts so for
one of these FRB we've actually observed
it pulsing many many times over and
those repeat observations about allowed
us to say yes it's actually coming from
outside our own Milky Way in front
outside earth as well and then it's
coming from that tiny dwarf galaxy
that's three billion light-years away
and we call these kind of things and I'm
starting with transient events you know
things that aren't always there they
sort of switch on and switch off again
things like a supernova flaring up in
the optical that's kind of the same
thing people might be familiar with
gamma-ray bursts as well this super
high-end burst that you get from a
supernova that we've been detecting for
years now and we think we kind of
understand those now but these FRBS we
cannot explain so you might think that
the strongest source of radio waves
would actually be like earth right we
communicate through radio all the time
but if you actually look an image of the
sky in radio waves you'll see
incredibly bright and also how there are
dots just scattered all over the plane
of the sky so it's incredibly bright in
the center our own Milky Way and that
was actually the first Radio Astronomy
detection made by Karl Jansky back in
the twice and that's actually coming
from the supermassive black hole in the
center of our own galaxy and these
things that are giving off radio waves
they're all high-energy objects -
they're like pulsars quasars
the Cosmic Microwave Background even was
detected in radio waves as well and that
allowed us to pinpoint the age of the
universe and prove that the universe is
accelerating expanding as well so when
you think shell radio astronomy like
don't think of astronomers with like the
old radios like twiddling dials trying
to get signals from space you have to
picture like huge huge dishes so I'm
thinking like George or Bank in
Manchester the UK you've got the Parkes
radio dish in Australia and New South
Wales and then you also have these huge
big arrays of smaller dishes as well
like the VLA in New Mexico so huge
variation in terms of radio telescopes
but radio astronomy is really cool with
the things that you can detect so we
find these FRBS distributed completely
across the sky it's not like they're
focused in the Milky Way planes we know
that they're not coming from our own
galaxy
there's Imus Cassatt across the sky
although they are biased to the fact
that we have radio dishes that are
sensitive to these in specific locations
on earth so you kind of bias by whatever
latitude that those telescope's are at
rebuffing that they're pretty much well
distributed the fact that they're fast
radio bursts like the fact that they're
milliseconds suggests that the object
that the burst is coming from is
actually quite small so it's like a
kilometers across we're talking like the
end life of a star maybe like a neutron
star perhaps or a magnetar which is a
really high magnetic field neutron star
or perhaps a pulsar which is a spinning
neutron star something like that which
is like incredibly small but incredibly
dense that might be able to give off
these these fast bursts but the fact
that we know that they're also coming
from outside
galaxies and they're incredibly bright
incredibly short-lived mean something so
energetic like it's 80 times the output
from the Sun in a year in a single radio
burst so there has been lots of theories
proposed perhaps it's from merging black
holes or neutron stars just like the
gravitational wave discovering a couple
years ago perhaps they have a connection
with the gamma-ray bursts that we've
been setting as well perhaps it's an
incredibly energetic supernova in itself
or I think my favorite figure just
because it has the best name a Blitzer
so a Blitzer is actually a completely
theoretical object we don't know if this
actually happens or not people think
that perhaps a rapidly spinning neutron
star bits accreting material gets to a
point where it's so dense that it could
collapse into a black hole and perhaps
that collapse is what gives off these
fast radio bursts so back in 2010 the
Parkes radio dish in Australia they
thought they'd discovered a new type the
bath Barbie and they dubbed these hairy
Tom's and they thought about 16 of them
they were very very similar to fr bees
they were these short pulses of radio
waves but they quickly discovered that
actually they were terrestrial in origin
they were coming from Earth but the fact
that they were so so similar to the fr
bees that we were discovering in space
was weird and it's with people a long
time to figure out what was actually
causing this when they did they
published what is possibly one of my
favorite actually papers of all time
this is what they ended up finding was
that staff at the observatory who were
on their break when they were heating up
their food if they opened the microwave
door for the time and had run out then a
tiny amount of a radio signal would
manage to escape from the microwave and
it would look just like an FRB from
space except it was from Earth and this
explained all of their observations the
fact that the perry tongs were sort of
semi regular and the fact they were kind
the same time every day but not exactly
the same so you couldn't quote that it
was like a 24-hour period burst which i
think is just amazing the fact that it
was just staff and microwaves the entire
time so although people don't think that
these F are bees are coming from aliens
opening their microwaves too soon out in
space there are people who have
suggested that perhaps these puppies are
alien in origin and have come from other
civilizations and for this reason SETI
got involved in the search and this is
why we have these repeat observations of
this single FRB you're wondering about
its name it's fr b12 1102 which
basically means it was first detected in
2012 on the 2nd of November and they
actually detected this frb 21 times in
the space of an hour and that was just
humans actually looking at the data when
they went back and got a machine and
sort of training the machine is the idea
of machine learning on this data they've
had about 93 in the space of 5 hours so
our pool of Fr bees that we knew about
all of a sudden went from your double
figures to almost triple figures and
they found that there was no pattern in
arrival times for these 93 fr bees there
was no patents in the amplification of
the fr bees either some of them were
slightly brighter some of them were
slightly fainter and even with these
observations we still don't know what's
causing these fr bees we have a lot more
to go off now and yet it's still not
enough for us to definitively say this
is what's causing it the only thing that
we now know from these repeat
observations is that the FRB have to be
coming from a highly Magneto ionic
environment so highly magneto means a
very high magnetic field so it'll mean
like a million times more powerful
magnetic field than the Earth's magnetic
field
ionic just means that the gas or
material that's surrounding the object
that's giving off these fr bees is
ionized so the electrons that go around
the nucleus of the
have been sort of released and so you
have like positively charged and
negatively charged ions roaming around
my gas so a lot of people think that it
could be a brand new neutron star that's
in a very high magnetic field and as it
sort of settles down after the supernova
that's formed it is giving off these
FRBS
the only thing that about a really high
magnetic field is that we know these
magnetic fields have the ability to act
as cosmic magnifying glasses in a way
they can artificially brighten the
energy that's coming from the magnetic
field
so perhaps we're overestimating the
brightness or the energy in these fast
radio bursts well go dealing you it's a
detect one of these battery numbers and
then see it in say the optical or
gamma-ray or x-ray and then we'll have
follow up in a different wavelength and
so we'll be able to like narrow down
where these events are coming from and
like what objects they could be coming
from as well that's the dream sort of a
multi-wavelength observation of one of
these objects because if you remember
the big news last year was that when
they detected a gravitational wave then
they also detected it in optical and in
x-ray and gallery and so they were able
to pinpoint what actually caused the
gravitational wave event that they
detected Fergie do the same thing in
make these multi-wavelength observations
of these radio bursts then perhaps we
could actually pinpoint what objects
these things are coming from because of
the minute there is no agreement across
the community of warn earth is producing
these fast radio bursts so if you like
this we love wonderful unsolved mystery
a fast radio bursts if you did then
press the little subscribe button down
the bottom with a little notification
bell I will see you next week but until
then dr. Becky over and out